Spring Boot is the best Java framework for developing web applications.
In this lesson, you're going to create a spring boot project.
The Spring initialize generates a spring boot project.
You can access the spring initialization by going to start dot spring dot IO.
Please pause the video and go to this website.
Now.
IntelliJ also has a spring initialized plugin that you can feel free to look into, but between the
two, I prefer the websites.
As of this recording, the stable version of Spring Boot is 2.6.7.
The versions will be different depending on when you're watching this video.
Just make sure to choose a stable version.
In other words, a version that doesn't precede parentheses.
And the group ID identifies the organization creating the project.
Your group ID should be a fully qualified domain name.
It should include a domain extension like dot com, dot org dot net, followed by the name of the organization.
For this tutorial, I'm going to create a group ID of comm dot l tp four learn the part.
The artifact ID determines the name of your application.
I'm going to call the application.
Hello, Spring.
We will stick with the default jar packaging type.
We're going to discuss packaging in more detail in an upcoming workbook.
I have Java 11 installed, so make sure to choose a Java version that matches the one you have installed.
Dependency is software that your application depends on.
We will discuss dependencies in more detail soon enough.
For now, you don't need to add any dependencies, so simply generate your project.
And it's going to generate into your downloads folder.
I'm going to extract the contents of my zip file.
And move it to desktop.
You can move it to the folder of your choice.
It doesn't really matter.
Now I'm going to go to IntelliJ.
Click on file.
And I will open.
The Halo Spring Project.
To recap, you created a spring boot project using the spring and nebulizer.
Recall that group ID identifies the organization creating the project.
It should be a fully qualified domain name that's completely lowercase.
Artifact ID is the name of your application, and every word that follows is joined by a hyphen.
Always choose jar as the file type to package your application, and a dependency is software that your
application depends on.